Mini Job Portal


Passing Criteria:



The test has a total of 100 marks. There are 3 tasks, and the marks breakdown is as follows:

Task 1 = 30%
Task 2 = 30%
Task 3 = 40%
You need to score 50% marks to pass the test.

Note: These tasks must be done in sequential order.



Automated Tests:

There are 10 test cases provided in the src/tests folder. These tests cover the main functionalities, and you must test your code against them. It's expected that some test cases should pass by default.

However, there are hidden tests that are much more strict and detailed. They should cover all the flows as well as all the edge cases. Your final submission will be evaluated using those hidden tests.



How to open the terminal:



Use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + Backtick () to open the terminal on Windows and ^ + Backtick () on Mac OS. If these shortcuts don't work, you can also access the terminal by clicking on "Terminal" in the top menu bar and selecting "New Terminal" from the dropdown menu.

You can preview the app using the Copy Preview URL after starting the React app using npm start.



Problem Statement


Background Story

Your task is to develop a Mini Job Portal website. The website should be used by both recruiters and job seekers (candidates). The candidates can create a profile on the website by filling in the information in a web form. All the candidate profiles should be visible to recruiters so they can contact the one they find suitable for the job.



Features
Candidates (job seekers) register on the website by filling in their name, email, and the role they are applying for. They also must add their skills so that recruiters can find them. The name, email, and role are required fields, and the candidate must add at least one skill. The user can't submit the form until the requirement of the form is completed.
The email of every candidate must be unique.
Upon successful registration, their profile should be added to the candidate list page, and the recruiters can find their profile in the form of a card.
The candidate list should have the profile cards of all the registered job seekers.
The recruiters should be able to search for candidates based on their skills using a search bar.


Pages
This website should have three pages, namely the home page, candidate registration page, and candidate list page, each having a navbar. Below are the required specifications:



Home Page
Route: /
Navbar with the heading "Job Portal".
Two buttons - Candidate List and Candidate registration should direct the user to the corresponding page. The candidate list button should also show the total candidate profiles in parenthesis.


Candidate Registration
Route: /candidate/registration
A navbar with the heading "Job Portal" and two buttons - Candidate List and Home - should navigate the user to the corresponding pages.
It should contain a form with placeholder and input fields of "name", "role", "email", and "skills", with an add skill button to add skills one by one. When the user adds a skill to the skill input and clicks on add skill button, a tag appears below the input box with the name of the skill the user typed. The form should have a submit button and a Reset button.
The submit button will be disabled until the name, role, and email fields are non-empty and no skills have been added.
If the user registers with an already existing email id, registration should fail, and a registration status message should be displayed: "Email already exists".
The maximum number of skills that can be added is 5.
Upon successful registration, a registration status message should be displayed below the form: "Candidate profile created".


Candidate List
Route: /candidate/list
A navbar with the heading "Job Portal" and two buttons - Candidate Registration and Home - should navigate the user to the corresponding pages.
It should contain a list of profile cards with the name of the candidate, the role they are interested in, email, and skills in the form of tags.
A search bar that searches through the list of profile cards based on their skills. For example, if "react" is searched, all profiles with the skill tag "react" should appear. There should also be an All button beside the search button, showing all the available profile cards when clicked.
A title that shows the number of profiles found after the search. For example, searching a skill result in 5 profile cards should show "5 profiles found" and 0 in case of zero profiles found. Initially, it should show the number of total available profile cards.


Wireframes


Home Page
task1.png


Candidate Registration Page
task2.png


Candidate Registration Page (Success)
task2-success.png


Candidate Registration Page (Email already Exists)
task2-email-exists.png


Candidate List Page
task3.png


Your Tasks


Task 1
Render Navigation buttons on the header with below conditions and Render Header Title Job Portal on the home, list, and registration page.

1.1 Render Navigation buttons on the header with below conditions:

Home Screen ('/') - does not show any buttons on the header.
Registration Screen ('/candidate/registration') - has 'Home' and 'candidate list' button on the header.
List Screen ('/candidate/list') - has 'Home' and 'Candidate Registration' button on the header.
1.2 Ensure that the header title is set to "Job Portal" on the home, list, and registration page.

The title must be Job Portal.
1.3 Check if the Registration form is rendered or not (name, role, email, skills, submit, reset, add).

Ensure that the Test case ID is given to the fields.
Check if name, email, role, and skill use input HTML elements.
Check if submit, reset, and skill use button HTML elements


Task 2
2.1 The "Add skill" button must follow these conditions:

The "Add skill" button is disabled until the candidate enters at least one value in the skill input field.
The "Add skill" button is enabled until the candidate has a maximum of 5 skills.
2.2 Validate the Form

All the fields on the form are required (Name, Role, Email, Skills).
Name: Should be a valid string, containing only letters, numbers, and spaces.
Role: Should be a valid string, containing only letters, numbers, and spaces.
Email: Should be a valid email address (e.g., example@email.com).
Skills: Should be a valid array of skills, separated by commas or spaces.
At least one skill is required to register successfully.
Display an error message if a candidate attempts to register with an email that already exists: "Email already exists".
The Submit button is disabled until the form is validated.
2.3 Click on the Reset button to check if the form is reset or not.



Task 3
3.1 Register new candidates and check if the candidate list count increases in the header.

Once a candidate registers, the candidate list count must increase.
3.2 Ensure that the Candidate Registration Form is reset after successfully adding a new candidate.

3.3 On the candidate listing page:

All the candidates added in the candidate registration form should be displayed.
The user should be able to perform a search based on the skills of the candidate (one skill at a time).
When the user clicks on the "All" button, the search text should be cleared, and all candidates should be displayed.


Test IDs


Navbar

Nav Button - Candidate List : nav-list-btn 

Nav Button - Candidate Registration : nav-registration-btn

Nav Button - Home : nav-home-btn

"Job Portal" title : nav-heading





Home Page

Button - Candidate List : list-btn

Button - Candidate Registration : registration-btn





Candidate Registration Page

Registration Form : registration-form

Input field - name : form-input-name

Input field - email : form-input-email

Input field - role : form-input-role

Input field - skills : form-input-skill

Button - Add skill : add-btn

Button - Submit : submit-btn

Button – Reset : reset-btn

Skill tag in the form : skill-tag

Registration Status message in the form : alertMessage



Candidate List Page

Profile Card : profile-card

Number of profiles found title : profiles-found-tag

Input - Search : search-input

Button All : search-all



Instructions:



How to start the application:

Install all the dependencies by running the following command:

		npm install


To start the server:

		npm start